{{START}}
Seneca Falls Convention
{{START}}
The Seneca Falls Convention was the first women’s rights convention in the United States and was held on July 19th and 20th of 1848 in Seneca Falls, New York at the Wesleyan Chapel.

Originally known as the Women’s Rights Convention, the SFC “fought for the social, civil, and religious rights of women.” 300 people attended, the first day only allowed women to attend. The next was open to men.

Elizabeth Cady Stanton was an organizer of the event and gave a speech to open the convention:
	“We are assembled to protest against a form of government, existing without the consent of the governed—to declare our right to be free as man is free, to be represented in the government which we are taxed to support, to have such disgraceful laws as give man the power to chastise and imprison his wife, to take the wages which she earns, the property which she inherits, and, in case of separation, the children of her love.”

Convention attendees would go on to discuss the 11 Resolutions on women’s rights (what exactly are the 11 resolutions?) All passed unanimously except for the ninth resolution, the woman’s right to vote. Elizabeth Stanton and Frederick Douglass argued in favor of the resolution and it eventually, although barely, was passed.

SFC Organizers
The 5 women who organized the convention were also active in the abolitionist movement:
Elizabeth Cady Stanton => main organizer, worked on women’s right reform in early 1840s
Lucretia Mott => quaker preacher from Philly, known for anti-slavery, women’s rights and religious reform
Mary M’Clintock => daughter of Quaker activist, appointed secretary of SFC, organized the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society with L. Mott in 1833. 
Martha Coffin Wright => L. Mott’s sister, ran a station on the Underground Railroad from her home in Auburn.
Jane Hunt => quaker activist, member of M’Clintock’s family through marriage

On July 9, 1848 Jane Hunt invited Elizabeth Stanton to her house for tea along with the 3 other organizers. It was here where they would draft the announcement for the SFC.

Declaration of Sentiments
“The Declaration of Sentiments” was the SFC’s manifesto that described women’s grievances and demands.” It was written mainly by Stanton and inspired by the Declaration of Independence:
	“ ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men and women are created equal…’ [it] asserted women’s equality in politics, family, education, jobs, religion, and morals”

Begins with “19 abuses and usurpations” that they feel are meant to just lessen a woman’s ability, independence, confidence and self-respect. (what exactly are the “19 abuses and usurpations”)

The convention would reconvene on August 2, 1848 at the First Unitarian Church of Rochester, New York to reaffirm goals with a larger audience
