{{START}}
Margaret Sanger
{{START}}
Margaret Sanger was an early feminist and women's rights activist who coined the term "birth control" and worked towards its legalization.

She was one of 11 children. Her mother, Anne, had several miscarriages, and Sanger believed that all of these pregnancies took a toll on her mother's health and contributed to her early death at the age of 40 (some reports say 50).

Sanger attended Claverack College and Hudson River Institute in 1896. Studied nursing at White Plains Hospital four years later. In 1902, she married William Sanger, an architect. The couple eventually had three children together.

In 1910, she moved to Greenwich Village and started a publication promoting a woman's right to birth control. Sanger started her campaign to educate women about sex in 1912 by writing a newspaper column called "What Every Girl Should Know." 

She also worked as a nurse in a predominantly poor immigrant neighborhood. Sanger treated a number of women who had undergone back-alley abortions or tried to self-terminate their pregnancies. She also began dreaming of a "magic pill" to be used to control pregnancy.

In 1914, she started a feminist publication called The Woman Rebel, which promoted a woman's right to have birth control. The Comstock Act of 1873 and Obscenity laws forced her to flee the country until 1915.

She fled to England. While there, she worked in the women's movement and researched other forms of birth control, including diaphragms, which she later smuggled back into the United States.

She returned to the United States in October 1915, after the charges against her had been dropped. She began touring to promote birth control and in 1916, she opened the first birth control clinic in the United States. Sanger and her staff, including her sister Ethel, were arrested during a raid nine days after it opened. They would spend 30 days in jail for breaking the Cornstock Law. 

Appealing her conviction, she scored a victory for the birth control movement. The court made an exception in the existing law to allow doctors to prescribe contraception to their female patients for medical reasons. Around this time, she also published her first issue of The Birth Control Review.

In 1921, Sanger established the American Birth Control League, a precursor to today's Planned Parenthood Federation of America. She served as its president until 1928. In 1923, while with the league, she opened the first legal birth control clinic in the United States, the Birth Control Clinical Research Bureau

Also around this time, Sanger married her second husband, oil businessman J. Noah H. Slee. He provided much of the funding for her efforts for social reform.

Sanger started the National Committee on Federal Legislation for Birth Control in 1929. The committee sought to make it legal for doctors to freely distribute birth control. 

In 1936, the U.S. Court of Appeals allowed for birth control devices and related materials to be imported into the country.

She worked on the birth control issue in other countries in Europe and Asia, and she established the International Planned Parenthood Federation in 1952.

Still seeking a "magic pill," Sanger recruited Gregory Pincus, a human reproduction expert, to work on the problem in the early 1950s. She found the necessary financial support for the project from Katharine McCormick, and would yield the first oral contraceptive, Enovid, which was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 1960.

In 1965, when the Supreme Court made birth control legal for married couples in its decision on Griswold v. Connecticut. Sanger died a year later.
