{{START}}
National Organization for Women (NOW)
{{START}}
SYNOPSIS
Union women, joining with upper-class women from the small, conservative National Woman's Party (NWP), and younger, liberal activists, formed the National Organization for Women (NOW) in October 1966, cofounded by Betty Friedan, but middle-class, professional women dominated NOW in its early years.

On October 29,1966 , 300 women met in Washington, D.C., as the founding convention of NOW.

NOW was formed to push the government to enforce the protections it had established for women

Friedan became NOW’s first president. She and Pauli Murray wrote the organization’s original statement of purpose, which said in part that the purpose of NOW was “to take action to bring women into full participation in the mainstream of American society now, exercising all the privileges and responsibilities thereof in truly equal partnership with men”

NOW initially focused on attracting media attention and on lobbying executive agencies and legislators on this issue

Among its founding members were unionists Aileen Hernandez, Dorothy Haener, Caroline Davis, Betty Talkington

After she left the EEOC, Aileen Hernandez was elected NOW president.

Unlike radical feminists of the period, NOW members sought change through the political system. One of their first campaigns was to get the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) to enforce Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964's ban on sex discrimination.

NOW argued that protective laws for women no longer served women's best interests. Women union leaders differed with NOW's position on key issues. They charged that NOW did not consider the needs of working-class women. Moreover, unionists opposed NOW

Responding to NOW, President Lyndon Johnson in 1967 amended an executive order banning discrimination on the basis of race by government contractors to include a prohibition on sex discrimination as well.

Bver the course of its founding period (1966–1971), NOW began to incorporate mass mobilization and protest activities into its tactical repertoire along with legislative lobbying, the campaign to ratify the equal rights amendment, and electoral activism. NOW also began to focus on broader goals, including abortion rights and lesbian rights.

By the later 1970s, NOW began to devote more resources to economic concerns such as the minimum wage and full-employment legislation. In the 1970s, it forced 1,300 corporations doing federal business to compensate female employees for past pay discrimination.

The relationship between NOW and the labor movement during NOW's first decade of existence was characterized by distrust.

Union leaders criticized NOW's efforts on behalf of women workers through the 1970s. They charged that NOW did not expend enough resources on economic issues affecting lower-paid working women

However, during the economic recession, the EEOC, NOW, and other liberal and civil rights organizations proposed that the guarantee of "last-hired, first-fired" be suspended so as to preserve the recent hiring gains of women and minorities.

It formed an umbrella political action committee (PAC) in 1978 called NOW/PAC under which it has organized specific PACs to target specific campaign drives and to support both female and male candidates who have a feminist agenda.

In 1986 it also established a NOW Foundation, as a tax-deductible education and litigation organization affiliated with NOW.

In 1992, it endorsed and financially supported the election of Carol Moseley Braun as senator from Illinois. Braun was the first African American woman elected to the Senate.

Nowadays, the National Organization for Women has approximately 500,000 contributing members and roughly 550 chapters across the United States. It has employed legal, legislative lobbying, electoral, and protest tactics, leading campaigns not only for the legal equality of women and for the equal rights amendment but also against sexual harassment, for the maintenance of women’s access to abortion clinics and against clinic violence, against domestic violence and rape, and for poor women’s rights.
